From The New York Times,
>> [music]
>> I'm Rachel Abrams and this is The Daily.
When Spirit Airlines shut down over
[music] the weekend, it brought an end
to a company that had revolutionized air
travel in the United States [music] with
an ultra low-cost approach.
So, today I talked to my colleague Niraj
Chokshi about the so-called Spirit
effect on air travel, [music]
why it unraveled, and whether the
problems that doomed Spirit could spread
to other airlines.
And my colleague Lindsey Garrison talks
to a Spirit [music] flight attendant
about what Spirit represented.
>> [music]
>> It's Thursday, May 7th.
Hey Lindsey, this is Colleen. Yeah. Oh,
hey Colleen. Nice to meet you. Hey, nice
to meet you as well. Thank you again for
your time. I'm really grateful and
>> Yeah, of course.
>> I'm I'm really sorry that this is the
circumstance under which we're talking,
but I really thank you again.
Um could we just start by you just
telling me a little bit about you know,
who you are and when you started working
for Spirit Airlines? Yeah. So, um
my name is Colleen Burns and I am a
Spirit Airlines flight attendant.
And I was um it sounds crazy to say. I
was Spirit Airlines flight attendant for
10 years. I had actually just started my
11th year with the company. Got it. Do
you remember your first day on the job?
Yeah, I was so nervous and I just
remember that first crew. Like when I
got there,
they were like so incredibly kind to me
and they were like, "Oh my god, it's
your first flight? Like sometimes we it
happened more back in the day, um but we
used to pull pranks on each other when
you were a new flight attendant. And so,
they had the pilots tell me that
something was wrong with the air in the
cabin and that I had to do an air test
and I needed to collect an air sample in
a trash bag and bring it into the
cockpit.
>> [laughter]
>> And this one I was like, "I don't
remember learning about this at all."
And like, "Oh my gosh, I didn't retain
anything."
So, I'm like walking through this cabin
on my very first flight operating as a
flight attendant with a giant white
trash bag above my head collecting air.
I go into the cockpit and the pilots
both look at me and just start busting
out laughing. Busting out laughing.
>> [laughter]
[music]
>> But, we used to do silly things like
that to one another
all the time and it's something that I
just don't I don't hear those stories
from other airlines.
There's just something really special
about being a Spirit flight attendant.
Yeah, what what is it, do you think?
Like, what is that thing?
>> I
I think that
Spirit has been through so many like
changes and like revivals and you know,
we went from being like the absolute
most hated airline to to be honest,
where in the end like people loved us.
And [music]
I think all of us went through that
journey with Spirit and we all had so
much [music] pride in how far Spirit had
come.
I mean, we're the underdog story.
And I had no idea. [music]
None of you know,
we we really all thought that Spirit was
going to
pull through.
>> Neraj, welcome to The Daily. Hey, thank
you. Thanks for having me. So, Neraj, as
you know, Spirit Airlines, they went
under over the weekend, and this comes
after the White House had tried to save
the airline. They did not save the
airline.
And what was so interesting was that
this airline that had basically been a
punchline for years sparked so much
grief. There was this outpouring of
people talking about how sad they were
that it was going away. Our colleague
Lindsey Garrison talked to a flight
attendant who said how much the airline
meant to her and how much she saw that
the airline meant to other people. And
so, I want to start this conversation
with you explaining to us why the death
of this airline has struck such a chord
with people.
Yeah, I mean, Spirit Airlines was this
symbol of affordable travel in America.
It allowed people to take trips that
they couldn't otherwise afford. For a
large segment of the population, it was
the only way for them to be able to fly
to places.
And the end came really suddenly. They
decided late last week it was time to
wind down, and by Saturday morning, they
shut down. That left 17,000 people who
were directly employed or indirectly
employed by Spirit out of work. Tens of
thousands of people who had tickets no
longer have flights.
And it left a gaping hole in the airline
market. I wonder if you could rewind the
clock a little bit and tell us about
where this airline came from. Like, what
was its origin story, and how did it end
up symbolizing
low-cost air travel in the United
States?
Yeah, so Spirit's origin actually dates
all the way back to the '60s. It started
as a trucking company. They got into
travel. They got into charter flights.
They renamed to Spirit Airlines in '92.
But, most people didn't really know who
they were. It wasn't until the mid-2000s
that Spirit adopted the business model
that we all know it for, and that's the
ultra-low-cost air travel model. The
idea is simple, you just cut costs as
much as you can and you pass that along
to passengers in the form of cheap
fares. It was popularized in Europe by
Ryanair, which is still going strong
today, and they thought that they could
bring it to the US with success. And can
you just explain that model? Like what
did they do or cut to actually keep
those ticket prices so low? Yeah, they
they did a lot. The key thing that they
did, which we all know them for, is
unbundling. Why should we have to raise
everybody's ticket price when only some
people want to eat or drink on board? We
don't think that's fair. We think it
gives customers more choice And the real
champion of this idea was Spirit's chief
executive at the time, Ben Baldanza.
Customers are welcome to bring water on
the plane with them. We're not stopping
that, but we sell what we sell. They
started to separate everything out so
that seat assignments cost extra money,
even water, you're paying for carry-ons,
having them print your boarding pass,
but the seat itself could be really
cheap. So, if you didn't need some of
those things, you could actually buy a
really dirt cheap ticket. I didn't
realize this that they literally charge
you to print your boarding pass. It's
like they're charging for everything
except flying. Like everything else is
considered a luxury just to keep the
ticket as cheap as possible. [music]
Right. And the idea is that, you know,
some people don't need it. They're happy
to pull it up on their phones or they're
they don't need customer service,
[music] so why would they pay the extra
fee for it? I recognize our airline is
not for everyone.
>> [music]
>> If you want to be coddled in the
airport, if you want an enormous amount
of legroom, if you want a free Coke,
>> [music]
>> we're not your airline and we're not
built to be that airline. But if you
want to save $150 round trip, [music]
we're a great deal, come fly us.
And they publicized this all with these
[music] racy, provocative ads. One of
them was what they called the MILF sale.
That's an acronym that some people may
know. It's kind of a raunchy and
meaning. Yep, from American Pie, I
believe.
>> Yeah, exactly, right. But for Spirit,
you know, it means many islands low
fares.
A gross
taken from the movie American Pie was
adopted by Spirit Airlines. I mean, you
know, and they go viral, right? I mean,
they're not only getting a lot of
attention on their own, but, you know,
news organizations start to cover them.
Spirit Airlines has a $69 campaign and,
you know, if you don't understand the 69
reference, then Google it. They start
selling tickets for [music] numbers
that, you know, have have other meanings
for, you know, let's say $69. I didn't
know any of this. I am horrified.
Social media is buzzing about this. On
our Fox 29 Facebook [music] page, Lori
wrote, "How about grow up?" Victoria
wrote, "I read the ad and kept waiting
to be shocked. [music] So much hoopla
over that." And Spirit starts to get a
lot of attention. People start to kind
of get to know this airline.
Right, more ads means more controversy,
means more news coverage, which means
more attention. But, beyond all of that,
how was the actual business model
received? Like, given the fact that the
business model itself was kind of a
novel idea here in the United States?
Yeah, there was a lot of skepticism.
Consumers saw it as nickel and diming
them. Investors had doubts that people
would really want to fly on an airline
like this or that the model could work.
And they were the butt of a lot of
jokes. This is pretty crazy here. Spirit
Airlines is considering a new fee to
talk with a human face-to-face during
check-in.
Yeah.
This explains the company's new slogan.
Spirit Airlines, why are you flying
Spirit Airlines?
Weird. I mean, on late night shows, the
idea that like you would have to pay for
a water bottle while flying or a printed
boarding pass, I mean, it just was
outrageous. The CEO of Spirit Airlines
said, "People shouldn't come to Spirit
if they want lots of legroom."
He said, "We call it Spirit Airlines
because there's only enough room for
your spirit."
>> [laughter]
>> And if being honest, even that's going
to get a little crushed.
But you know, they embraced it and when
they got criticism, they would push back
and say, "Look, we're here to make
travel affordable. That's what this is
about and take it or leave it."
And it was slow at first, but then
people start to fly on Spirit and it
starts to take off and they go public in
2011 and by the next year they're flying
about 10 million passengers. They're
doing really well. And by 2016, they're
up to 20 million passengers. And what
was behind all that growth? I can't
imagine it was just the racy MILF ads.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, I mean, they are stealing
travelers from other airlines, but
there's also this idea that they're
bringing people in off the sidelines.
So, people who normally wouldn't be
flying but they see an opportunity
because the flights are cheap enough. It
might be
making that choice instead of ordering
takeout. And this is something that Ben
Baldanza himself says is he's like,
"We're not necessarily competing just
with other airlines, we're competing
with other forms of spending." Mhm. And
this new approach that Spirit has is
starting to affect the wider industry
where when Spirit enters an airport for
the first time, you see fares drop.
Other airlines have to compete and so
they have to reduce their fares. Mhm. It
actually becomes the subject of academic
study. It's called the the Spirit
effect.
>> [music]
>> Did you feel like Spirit was different
than other airlines? Oh, yeah. I mean,
we were the market disruptor. We did
cause the fares to be lower. They called
it the Spirit effect. The first time
this really resonated with me was when I
was flying back from Fort Lauderdale and
I did not have my lanyard on. I was out
of uniform and I sat next to this
gentleman
and his son
and we had a little bit of turbulence
and then you could hear the hydraulics.
And that's always something that either
freaks people out or you know, it sounds
kind of like a dog. It sounds like
something and it's normal. It's
completely normal on the Airbuses.
And I could see him getting panicked.
So, I was like, "Yes, it's normal. It's
just the hydraulics. Wait. It's okay."
Mhm. [laughter] And so, we're sitting
there and we're, you know, I'm just kind
of talking to him and he like has a
moment and he's like, "Wait, how did you
know that was okay? How did you know
that sound was? Are you just telling me
that?" And I like laughed again and I
was like,
I was like, "I'm not wearing my lanyard.
I'm actually a Spirit employee."
[laughter]
I was like, "I promise it's normal." And
he was like, "Oh, okay." Okay. Well,
then he started talking to me and I
remember this gentleman being like, "You
guys make it so affordable for me to
take my son on these trips every once in
a while."
You know, it sounded like he shared
custody with his son. So, this was
something very special that he liked to
do with him when he had him. He was a
blue-collar worker. He was like, "I'm
terrified flying, but I really love
being able to do this and love being
able to try taking my son to see
different places."
And
that was a moment for me that I was just
I Not that I didn't already have pride,
but I really started to have pride in
Spirit and our brand and what we did and
the accessibility that we brought. Mhm.
Because we did. We had so many first We
had so many first-time fliers, so many
families, so many people that never
would have gotten the opportunity to fly
if it wasn't for us.
And I really loved that we had a carrier
that was able to offer that to people.
That you got your seat and like you were
able to fly the $49
round-trip ticket and
hop on a flight for the weekend to see
your family that you normally wouldn't
have been able to do because all you
cared about was getting from point A to
point B safely.
You didn't need the super fancy seats.
You didn't need the pretzels snacks. You
didn't need the single pour of Coca-Cola
like it was about getting there and it
was about the journey that you were
going to have once you got there.
We were able to connect people that
otherwise wouldn't have been able to
afford to be connected.
So Niraj, it sounds like at least for a
while, Spirit was really making
progress, revolutionizing travel. When
did things start going south? Well, a
few things start to happen. The first
big thing is that Spirit becomes a
victim of its own success.
They can't be ignored anymore and
they're flying in a lot of places where
the big airlines are flying too. And so
the big airlines introduce something
called basic economy, which is basically
a a Spirit competing fare.
It comes with a lot of restrictions. It
doesn't include a checked bag or
carry-on bag. You often can't pick your
own seat, but you can pay for those,
right? Just like Spirit.
>> Mhm. But the problem is that these
bigger airlines, they also have a lot of
resources. So
>> Right, because if you have a choice
between United and Spirit and they cost
the same, you're probably going to go
with the bigger airline. Right. Spirit
may be flying on a route twice a day and
United might fly the same route eight
times.
>> Mhm. If your flight gets canceled,
there's a backup. There's also customer
service. There's all these other
benefits for flying with the big
airlines. And so if you're looking at
the same cost, you might be inclined to
choose them. And that poses a really big
problem for Spirit. They can't really
lower fares much more than they already
have. And so to compete with the big
airlines, they have to start to improve
quality. They have to get you to where
you're going on time more often. They
have to have better customer service and
that's expensive and that puts a lot of
pressure on Spirit's business model. And
keep in mind also, the big guys, they
have more profitable seats at the front
of the plane. So they can subsidize the
basic economy seats. Spirit doesn't have
that. Right, Spirit does not have a
$2,000 business class seat.
>> Exactly. Yeah. Okay, so they're feeling
the heat from the bigger airlines. Tell
us sort of what happens from there.
Yeah, so you know, the pandemic
obviously hurts all airlines equally.
But then there's this faster than
expected recovery. People really want to
travel. And so there's this fierce
competition going on and that keeps
fares low, makes it hard for Spirit to
earn a profit.
At the same time, a lot of pilots end up
retiring during the pandemic, but then,
you know, in the years after airlines
really need them back and so they end up
paying a lot more to stay competitive.
That starts with the big airlines, but
then everybody else has to do their best
to match because there just aren't that
many pilots around. So, you know, Spirit
starts to see that labor, one of their
biggest costs, is going up. And their
edge is all about costs and if their
costs are starting to look a lot like
the same costs that the big airlines
have, then they've lost their edge.
>> [music]
>> So, they're in this position where costs
are rising, competition is fierce, and
there are all these other problems that
they're just having to deal with.
And so then they decide they need
[music] to do something to get back on
track.
>> [music]
>> We'll be right back.
Okay, so at this point, Niraj, it sounds
like Spirit is really getting squeezed
in a whole bunch of different ways. What
do they do to try to get back on track?
Yeah, well, one thing they try to do is
is they actually try to merge with one
of their rivals, Frontier Airlines,
which is another budget carrier. They
announced this in 2022 and the thinking
was that they're struggling, things are
hard, but if they could create this big
national low-cost carrier, that they
might actually be able to to kind of
make some moves, you know, they might be
able to take on the bigger airlines in a
better way. But then JetBlue Airways
decides it actually wants to acquire
Spirit and it makes a better offer and
it ends up squeezing Frontier out and
they go forward with a JetBlue Spirit
merger. But then the Justice Department
says, "Wait a second.
We like Spirit. Spirit does good things
in the airline industry. It keeps fares
low." And so they sue to stop the merger
because they're afraid that if JetBlue
takes Spirit in, they're going to change
the way Spirit's planes work, they're
going to change the business model, and
they're going to end up raising fares.
They're basically arguing that if these
two airlines merge, it would be bad for
consumers. It's basically an antitrust
argument.
Exactly. Exactly. One of the things that
JetBlue said during the merger process
is that we're going to take some seats
out of Spirit's planes. Spirit packs in
the seats really tightly to fit as many
people as they can on a plane. JetBlue
says, "We're going to add a little
legroom, make it a little more
comfortable." But the Justice Department
says, "Well, wait a second. That means
that your costs are going to go up.
You're going to have to charge more to
cover that." And what was Spirit's
counterargument to that?
Yeah, you know, as Spirit and JetBlue
were saying, "Look, this is going to be
good for consumers because we're going
to have more market power. You know,
JetBlue is a low-cost airline, and it's
not what Spirit is, but JetBlue does
compete to keep fares low, and that
together, you know, as as a national
player operating in all these airports,
we would be able to actually serve
consumers better." Basically, they're
saying if we can pool our resources
together, we're going to be able to
compete better with the big guys, and
ergo, we're going to be able to give
customers lower fares. Right. You know,
with with enough scale, we have the
resources to keep fares low in a lot
more places. But then the federal court
judge decides that Spirit's presence at
an airport can lower fares 5, 10%, and
we need that in the market, and this
merger is anticompetitive.
Okay, so merger doesn't happen. Where
does Spirit go from here? So, they file
for bankruptcy in 2024, they get out of
bankruptcy in 2025, but then file for
bankruptcy again in 2025. And then
coming into this year, the Iran war
starts, and that sends fuel prices
skyrocketing.
And Spirit has a plan to get out of
bankruptcy, but then it seems like the
fuel prices is high, that plan is just
not going to work. Right. That would be
a challenge for any airline to suddenly
have to shoulder these rising fuel
costs, but especially a challenge for an
airline that has just gone through two
bankruptcies and is really trying to
keep its costs low to stay competitive.
Exactly. And you know, labor costs have
already gone up, fuel costs are now
going up. Those are the two biggest
costs of for any airline. And so, the
Trump administration steps in and they
say, you know, what can we do? These are
a lot of jobs. This is an important
airline to the economy. And on top of
that, presumably the optics of this do
not look great, right? Having an
airline, specifically an airline that
caters to working-class people go under
because of a war started under the Trump
administration. Exactly. And they float
this idea of a $500 million lifeline.
The government would have to step in and
lend the company that money.
But the government wants protection, you
know, they don't want to lend money with
no strings attached. They want to get
preferential treatment over the other
lenders that have lent Spirit money. And
Spirit's existing lenders don't love
that idea. So, that they continue
talking, but late last week it becomes
clear that there's not really a path
forward. There's just not a deal to be
done. And so, Spirit's lenders tell
Spirit, you know, we think it's time for
you to wind down. And you know, they
have to move quickly. Airlines are
expensive. You can't announce that an
airline's going to shut down weeks in
advance because a lot of people are
going to start to peel away. And so, on
Friday they continue flying. They fly
50,000 people. The last flight in lands
in Dallas just after midnight. And
Saturday morning at just after 2:00
a.m., they announce, "We're done. Spirit
Airlines is shut down."
When did you find out?
Um, so
this might make me choke [music] up, but
um
at about 11:00 p.m.
We got called into a meeting by our AFA
International President, Sara Nelson.
And um
I just remember seeing Sara's face.
I'm sorry. [laughter]
And they do it's over.
And she told us it was
it was over.
And that we were shutting down.
And um
we all cried a lot.
>> [music]
>> It's been a really crazy
um
72-ish
hours for all of us um
>> [snorts]
>> because
we're losing our family.
Are you hearing from colleagues and
friends?
And actually um
I'm I'm at one of my friend's house with
about eight other flight attendants
right now.
>> [laughter]
>> Oh my gosh. And it
it's like we're all grieving.
We're all so here.
But I think we're like grieving the loss
because like Spirit's the catalyst that
like brought us all together.
And like that's gone now.
And um
after you've spent years dedicating this
time to this company that you had so
much pride in and you believed in and
that you loved and you loved the people
that you work with.
It
it just comes in waves.
It comes in waves.
You know, I kind of always thought like
if something were to happen like I would
walk away from aviation and that last
week I was like there's no way. There's
no way that I can walk away from
aviation.
Um
it gets into your it gets into your
aviation and I just
I
there's there's truly like thinking back
on it and I'm like there isn't anything
else that
>> [music]
>> that I want to do.
But
>> [music]
>> there's just something about it the you
know the black and yellow in our blood
that I you know it's going to be hard
ever find that again for us.
It's never
going to be the same.
>> [music]
>> Senator Raj, we mentioned earlier in our
conversation that there's been this
outpouring of grief from people who
travel who took Spirit who are so sad
that it has gone away. Can you just
describe for us
what did that grief look like? What did
it sound like since Spirit announced
that it was going under on Saturday?
Yeah, you know, I think the immediate
reaction for some people was surprise.
We heard from people at airports on
Saturday who had no idea this was coming
and showed up and you know very quickly
had to figure out how they were going to
get home.
But I think you know as frustrated as
people were at times with Spirit I think
people really started to understand its
place and appreciated it for what it
was. This is a sad day. Thousands of
people that really depend on this low
cost airline to travel that may not have
otherwise gone anywhere.
And
I think
seeing it gone is sad for a lot of
people.
Spirit was good for [music]
you know the working consumer who loves
to travel who knows how to pack light.
I've taken Spirit a lot of places. And
you know looking online you see this
outpouring of tributes to Spirit. This
is kind of heartbreaking because
whenever I wanted to get like a cheap
last minute flight somewhere I'd be like
let's check Spirit.
And now I won't be able to do that.
>> [music]
>> And there were a lot of travelers out
there who were able to go on vacation
because
of airlines like Spirit.
>> Mhm. Spirit never did me wrong. Like, do
you understand how much flights cost
nowadays? Like, on some real stuff,
flights are super expensive. And so, it
really did have a place for people.
>> [music]
>> What is your diagnosis ultimately,
Niraj, about what Spirit's downfall was?
Like, how much should we attribute to
the rising cost associated with the war
in Iran or other headwinds faced by
budget airlines or the airline industry
as a whole?
It's definitely death by a thousand
cuts. I mean, Spirit just had an
unforgiving few years, and they just
could not catch a break. They couldn't
get stable footing.
But, you know, I think it also shows
that this business model itself is
really unforgiving. There's not a lot of
buffer. And so, if one too many things
go wrong, it's hard to recover.
Hindsight is obviously 20/20, but how
should we be thinking about the merger
that the DOJ blocked in 2024? Because
at the time, Spirit said, "We need
this." The DOJ obviously didn't buy that
argument, and now here we are.
Yeah, it's it's really set off this
political debate. The Trump
administration says, you know, look, the
Biden administration interfered, and now
Spirit's going under. And some experts
I've talked to agree. They say that, you
know, had this merger gone forward, this
new combined airline might have been
able to survive and be vibrant and lower
fares across the country. But then, a
lot of experts aren't so sure. Airline
mergers are notoriously difficult to
pull off. They cost lots of money, and
there's just no guarantee that it would
have ended well for JetBlue and Spirit.
I want to talk about what Spirit's
demise means for the future of air
travel more broadly. Like, since they
came on the scene, there have been other
low-cost budget airlines like Frontier
and Allegiant. So, what does the
collapse of Spirit mean for those guys,
if anything? It's a mixed picture. So,
you mentioned Allegiant and and they
actually adopted this model around the
same time as Spirit and they have
actually done pretty well. They just
actually are in the middle of acquiring
another airline, Sun Country. And part
of the reason for their success is,
unlike Spirit, Allegiant was able to
stay off the radar of the big airlines.
So, about 75% of their routes, they have
zero competition.
>> Mhm. But, you know, others, not so much.
Frontier, like Spirit, is facing a lot
of the same problems.
I do wonder also about the bigger
airlines, the Uniteds, the Americans,
etc. Like, I do wonder whether the
bigger guys will now have just that much
less incentive to offer competitive
low-cost fares. Do you foresee that
happening? Yeah, the experts that I
talked to do think that fares are going
to rise and they say that to some extent
that probably was going to happen
anyway. Fuel costs have gone up,
airlines have to cover that.
But, for the big airlines, they're so
much more focused on the elite traveler.
They have really discovered that in the
last few years that if they invest in
those people who are willing to spend a
lot of money,
they can earn a lot of profit. And and
it's worked exceptionally well for
airlines like Delta and United. They've
invested in lounges, they've invested in
their loyalty programs, they've invested
in fancy seats and plane renovations and
it's really paying off. And so,
will they still compete for basic
economy travelers? Sure. Those are
travelers that they see maybe someday
upgrading to main economy and up to
business class. But, right now, those
airlines are really focused on the front
of the plane, those nice big fancy
seats. It's interesting because the
Spirit era was really marked by these
airlines stripping amenities out from
what they offered so that they could
offer low-budget fares. But, what you
are describing sounds like almost going
in the opposite direction, like more and
more offering these luxury amenities and
it feels as though what you are
describing is a real widening of the
division that already exists in air
travel and so many other facets of
American life between the haves and the
have-nots. Yeah, you know, I mean Spirit
in its early years really democratized
air travel, but even before it shut down
Spirit was embracing catering to the
premium traveler.
They last summer announced plans to add
premium seats at the front of their
planes and they actually started to
rebundle their fares so that buy a
single ticket that included a lot of the
things that they once stripped out.
So even before Spirit went under, we
were already starting to see a retreat
from that business model that was just
sharply focused on low cost and low
fares.
And so there's this sense that yeah,
maybe the industry is headed in a
direction where it's not as focused on
serving everybody.
Naraj, thank you so much.
Thank you. [music]
We'll be right back.
>> [music]
>> Here's what else you need to know today.
Iran said on Wednesday that it was
reviewing an [music] American proposal
to end the war a day after President
Trump paused a new US military effort to
protect ships in the Strait of Hormuz.
Iran's foreign [music] ministry
spokesman said that his government had
not yet given its response to the US
proposal
and neither he nor President [music]
Trump said what it contained.
And
Tennessee Republicans proposed a
congressional map [music] aimed at
diluting the state's lone majority black
district a swift response to last week's
Supreme Court ruling that weakened the
Voting Rights Act. The new Tennessee map
slices the county containing Memphis a
majority-black [music] city, into three
districts and likely will give
Republicans the ability to flip
Tennessee's lone remaining Democratic
seat.
>> [music]
>> And finally,
Ted Turner, the 20th-century media titan
who created CNN, died on Wednesday at
the age of 87.
When Turner debuted CNN in 1980, [music]
it revolutionized television news,
presenting news at all hours of the day
and eventually inspiring other media
[music] operations to follow suit.
>> [music]
>> Today's episode was produced by Stella
Tan, Lindsay Garrison, and Diana Wynn.
Was edited [music] by Rob Zipko and
Michael Benoist.
With research help from Will Pichell
and contains music by Chelsea Daniel,
Marion Lozano, [music]
Alyssa Moxley, Dan Powell, Pat McCusker,
and Diane Wong.
Our theme music is by Wonderly.
This episode was engineered by Alyssa
[music] Moxley.
>> [music]
>> That's it for The Daily. I'm Rachel
Abrams. See you tomorrow.